
losikid67:

On mixing for crawling applications will need to be able to mix Throttle to an
AUX channel (channel 3) and to be able to adjust the mix rate via 3 way switch
when not programming. So for ex. when the 3 way switch is pushed down it will
decrease the percentage by 10%. So the slave will be 90% of the master channel.
If it is pushed up it will increase the the percentage 10% So the slave will be
110% of the master channel. Also it would need need another 3 position switch
that in center position the radio uses the above mixing features, but the outer
positions will connect just the throttle or Aux channel to the trigger, the
inactive channel will be sent to center.
As its basic functions. If possible, other functions could include adjustable
step rate (so not a set 10%) and auto return, so if you change direction of
click it will return to 100% mix.
Also at least one additional channel could be useful. Preferably have them
support 3 position switches. OR have them as virtual channels since i/o's are
limited. It be another mix, steering mix for 4 wheel steer.
--
So its not in a million different places, heres the functions of a rock crawler
that we use aux channels for

Dig-Locking on axle or the other to achieve tighter turning, and sucks down the
suspension

4WS- 4 wheel steering, to be able to make the front and rear tires turn.

Lighting-turn lights on and off

Multi speed trannies-Change gears to get different ratios

winch-to use a winch, in, lock, out

And more- There really is a ton of stuff out there.

Now for how each one of these works.

Dig-So there are 5 ways to obtain dig on a crawler. The oldest one in the book
is a mechanical dig. Which is simple disconnecting the outputs in a tranny and
sometimes into a slot to lock them. This is done with a servo. trim, EPA's and
3 positions is required on the aux channel. The next way is more/less a
homebrew way for a MOA (motor on axle) crawler. This uses two lever switches
and a servo. What the lever switches do is short out a motor so it'll lock up.
3 positions are required and epa's would be nice. The next way which is just a
modern version of the lever switches is a Punkdig (mentioned a few posts
aboved) the punk dig does the same thing as the two lever switches, except it
uses relays controlled by a rx to do the switching. 3 postions are required for
this. Now there are two more ways which envolves two esc's. The first way uses
a wantAmix which i build and sell (www.overkillrc.com). The wantAmix requires a
3 position switch for dig functions, and linear control for bias mixing. The
wAm is an adapter that plugs into and rx for the throttle and aux channel. It
will then mix thos two channels for dual esc's how ever the aux channel tells
it too. The last method uses radio mixing...please see below for mixing

4WS-4ws is popular with super crawlers and just bashers. Some people like Front
only, crab, mix, rear only. Crab is where the wheels turn the same way, it so
the crawlers tracks diagonally while still facing forward, and mix is like what
monster trucks do, so the can turn sharper (wheels turn opposition directions).
This requires mixing or a 4ws computer, see below for mxing. Now the other
method which pro drivers use is just to have full independent control of each,
so the aux channel would have to be linear.

Everything else uses a 3 position switch and usually needs trim and epa's.

Ok so basic aux channel functions should be
3 postion switch
EPA's
Trim

Now for more advance stuff, linear and mixing.

Mixing- There are two things we use mixing for. Dual ESC's and 4ws.

Dual ESC's. So for dual esc's the ideal setup would be to have a 3 position
switch for basic dig functions. This switch will need to act like this

Pos 1-Ch2 controlled by trigger, Ch3 is at neutral
Pos 2-Ch2 and Ch3 are both evenly controlled by the trigger
Pos 3-Ch3 is controlled by the trigger, Ch2 is at neutral

Now there needs to be something to bias that mix, or adjust the mix rate. This
can be achieved with a momentary 3 pos switch, two momentary butons, or a
rotary switch/encoder, a pot could be used as well. Now what needs to happen is
each click of some sort will adjust the mix rate, by a pre set step rate. So
one click up will decrease ch3 by 10 percent of where the trigger is. Another
click up will decrease the rear again by 10 percent, for a total of 20%. and
visa versa a click down will decrease ch 2 once ch 3 has obtained 100% mix. A
nice option to have is so if you change directions or push a different button
it will even out the mix. This is just a preference though.

Now for 4ws, i explained kind how it'll be mixed above (front, crab, mix, rear)
This could be achieved a number of ways, one button to cycle through would
work. Some people may like bias steering as well, but they could just use the
dual esc features.

Linear-Now linear control can be done a number of ways, easiest would just be
installing a pot to the ch 3 A/D encoder. How ever the best way to implement
this is again with a 3 pos switch and a step rate. So each click will increase
or decrease the ch 10%

